[DOC-854] Docs for Voyager 2025.7.1 (#27816)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/migrate/bulk-data-load.md

- `metainfo` and `temp` directories are used by yb-voyager for internal bookkeeping.
- `logs` directory contains the log files for each command.

## Set up a configuration file

You can use a [configuration file](../../reference/configuration-file/) to specify the parameters required when running Voyager commands (v2025.6.2 or later).

To get started, copy the `bulk-data-load.yaml` template configuration file from one of the following locations to the migration folder you created (for example, `$HOME/my-migration/`):

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

  {{% tab header="Linux (apt/yum/airgapped)" lang="linux" %}}

```bash
/opt/yb-voyager/config-templates/bulk-data-load.yaml
```

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="MacOS (Homebrew)" lang="macos" %}}

```bash
$(brew --cellar)/yb-voyager@<voyager-version>/<voyager-version>/config-templates/bulk-data-load.yaml
```

Replace `<voyager-version>` with your installed Voyager version, for example, `2025.5.2`.

  {{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

Set the export-dir, source, and target arguments in the configuration file:

```yaml
# Replace the argument values with those applicable for your migration.

export-dir: <absolute-path-to-export-dir>

> 

Author: there is no source section for bulk data load

### Incremental data loading

You can also import files to the same table across multiple runs. For example:

{{< tabpane text=true >}}

  {{% tab header="Config file" lang="config" %}}

1. Import `orders1.csv` by modifying the configuration file and running the `import data file` command as follows:

    ```conf
    ...
    import-data-file:
      ...
      file-table-map: 'orders1.csv:orders'
      ...
    ...
    ```

    ```sh
    yb-voyager import data file –config-file <path_to_config_file>
    ```

1. Import a different file, for example `orders2.csv`, to the same table by modifying the configuration file and running the `import data file` command as follows:

    ```conf
    ...
    import-data-file:
      ...
      file-table-map: 'orders2.csv:orders'
      ...
    ...
    ```

    ```sh
    yb-voyager import data file –config-file <path_to_config_file>
    ```

> 1. To import an updated version of the same file (that is, having the same file name and data-dir), use the `--start-clean` flag and proceed without truncating the table. yb-voyager ingests the data present in the file in upsert mode. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import an updated version of the same file (that is, having the same file name and data-dir), use the `start-clean` parameter and proceed without truncating the table. yb-voyager ingests the data present in the file in upsert mode. 
```

> For example, importing `orders.csv` under `data-dir` to the `orders` table, it is the same file which keeps on updating:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For example, importing `orders.csv` under `data-dir` to the `orders` table, updates the same file:
```

    ```conf
    ...
    import-data-file:
      ...
      data-dir: /dir/data-dir
      file-table-map: 'orders.csv:orders'
      ...
    ...
    ```

    ```sh
    yb-voyager import data file –config-file <path_to_config_file>
    ```

> 1. After adding new rows to `orders.csv`, make the following change in the configuration file and run the `import data file` command again:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding new rows to `orders.csv`, make the following change in the configuration file and run the `import data file` command again:
```

      enable-upsert: true
      start-clean: true
      ...
    ...
    ```

    ```sh
    yb-voyager import data file –config-file <path_to_config_file>
    ```

  You can specify additional `import data file` parameters in the `import-data-file` section of the configuration file. For more details, refer to the [bulk-data-load.yaml](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/blob/{{< yb-voyager-release >}}/yb-voyager/config-templates/bulk-data-load.yaml) template.

  {{% /tab %}}

  {{% tab header="CLI" lang="cli" %}}

1. Import `orders1.csv` by running the `import data file` command as follows:

    ```sh
    yb-voyager import data file --file-table-map 'orders1.csv:orders' ...
    ```

1. Import a different file, for example `orders2.csv`, to the same table by modifying the configuration file and running the `import data file` command as follows:

    ```sh
    yb-voyager import data file --file-table-map 'orders2.csv:orders' ...
    ```

1. To import an updated version of the same file (that is, having the same file name and data-dir), use the `--start-clean` flag and proceed without truncating the table. yb-voyager ingests the data present in the file in upsert mode.

> For example, importing `orders.csv` under `data-dir` to the `orders` table, it is the same file which keeps on updating:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    For example, importing `orders.csv` under `data-dir` to the `orders` table updates the same file:
```

> Run the `yb-voyager end migration` command to perform the clean up, and to back up the migration report, and the log files by providing the backup related flags (mandatory) as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the `yb-voyager end migration` command to perform the clean up, and to back up the migration report and the log files by providing the backup related flags (mandatory) as follows:
```
